[indistinct chatter]
- You know this guy?
- Orlando Diaz.
We were treating him
for DKA when he eloped.
- How far did he fall?
- 20 feet or so.
- Anyone see him pass out?
- No.
They went looking for him after
he didn't answer his radio.
- Pupils equal but sluggish.
- He left against
medical advice.
- On my count. three. two. one.
[grunts]
- Dr. Ellis on the case.
Day shift. we got this.
- I'm staying.
- Continuity of care.
Dr. Al-Hashimi.
why don't you go cover
sign-out rounds with Dr. Abbot?
Shen. you too.
- Got it.
- OK. let me know
if you need anything.
- Lungs are up bilaterally.
- Pelvis is stable.
Right tib-fib hematoma.
deformed right forearm.
- Ruptured TM on the left
with sero-sanguinous fluid.
- That means
basilar skull fracture.
- We've got a diabetic patient.
20-foot fall.
- BP 204 over 98. pulse 56.
- Dr. Mohan. what do those
numbers indicate?
- I'm trying
to treat the patient.
- It's the Cushing's reflex.
- From increased
intracranial pressure.
- Yeah. we need to get him
to CT right away.
- No free fluid in the belly.
- Any family to notify?
- Wife and three kids.
- Is there a card
to sign for Robby?
- No. he said
no card. no presents.
- Oh. Was there a cake?
- Oh. he didn't want
that either.
- That sucks.
I need some cake.
- Patient was injured
when they raided a restaurant.
- And they actually
arrested the nurse?
- With a takedown and zip ties.
- Damn.
- Crus. you. uh. know
the computer downtime drill?
- Yeah. no biggie.
I prefer to treat 'em
without labs and X-rays.
Welcome back.
- If you do have orders
for labs and X-rays.
clipboards go here.
If it's just
nursing orders. here.
- Please write neatly.
for God's sake.
- Oh. Monica. this is Nazely.
new intern.
- I don't need to know that.
- So nice to meet you.
- Looks like you and me. Jack.
- Yeah. who's our senior?
- Dr. Henderson.
- Excellent.
Night shift's on Crus control.
- You hear
ICE brought us a patient?
- Oh. yeah?
How'd that go?
- There was some
collateral damage.
They arrested Jesse.
- For what?
- Assaulting a federal officer.
- Are you fucking kidding me?
- Oh. Dr. Al-Hashimi.
this is Nazely Toomarian--
new intern.
[both speaking Armenian]
- OK. everybody.
let's huddle up.
- Before we start.
let me address
the elephant in the room.
For those of you
who don't know.
Jesse tried to intervene
when a federal agent
was handling his patient.
and both he and the patient
were taken away by ICE.
- Did he punch the guy?
- No.
He put out a hand to stop him.
made physical contact.
- [softly] It was a little bit
more than that.
- The hospital lawyers
are on the case.
and we will brief the staff
every 12 hours
at sign-out rounds
with an official update.
- In the meantime.
don't feed the rumor mill.
- You may have also heard
that new grad nurse Emma here
was assaulted by a patient.
- I--I'm fine.
- Please don't forget
"code hula hoop."
and with risky patients.
always keep a path
to the door clear.
- Sounds like
one hell of a day.
And we're still dealing
with downtime.
so day shift should brief
night residents
about the protocol--
[clicking]
[crowd murmuring]
- Hey!
- Oh. all right!
[applause]
- Oh. thank God.
- Yeah. not so fast.
Every chart
from the last five hours
needs to be scanned into
the Electronic Health Record
and checked for accuracy...
- Um. whose job is that?
- Day shift.
- With a completed
and signed T-sheet.
- Are you kidding me?
- That's gonna take forever.
- We will set up stations
for scanning.
OK. everybody.
let's get moving.
- Triage is 20 behind.
Gotta help 'em clean up.
I'm skipping rounds.
- Consider yourself lucky.
- Should we join them?
- [sighs]
Might as well
witness the magic.
It's like changing of the guard
at Buckingham Palace.
- Except we're allowed
to smile.
- "Smile though
your heart is aching."
[machine beeping]
- Plain films. right tib-fib
and right forearm after CT.
- Got the chem-8.
Blood sugar's 284.
- That's not too bad.
Potassium looks good.
- Mm-hmm.
Anion gap's up at 14.
- It was 24 this morning.
He's definitely improving.
- The DKA is resolving.
- So what made him pass out?
- It's hot as hell out there.
He could have been dehydrated
from sweating.
Or he could have had
an N-STEMI or a posterior CVA.
- Ready to roll.
- I can babysit him at CT.
- Thank you.
- I'll stay
in case he needs the OR.
- Hey. we're back up.
- It's about time.
- Ooh. Robby.
- Yeah.
- I got intel on where
ICE has taken Jesse.
- Intel from who?
- Uh. my brother-in-law's
a cop.
So he'll be processed
at DHS Southside
and then transferred
to ICE detention in Clearfield.
- Clearfield?
That's two hours away.
- Mm-hmm.
- OK. I'll let
the hospital attorneys know.
- How are you doing. Oliver?
- Alive and kicking.
- Uh. Mr. Haas.
Pulmonary edema
after missed dialysis.
now stable with his son Mason
at the bedside.
- Hello.
- I'm Dr. Shen.
I'll be back.
- Dialysis tech says
I'm off the machine at 10:42.
- Hit the call light.
and I'll come running.
- South 21 next...
Mr. Digby.
- J-just Digby.
- Dr. Mohan's patient.
Forearm cellulitis.
admit med-surge.
Awaiting a bed.
- I can take him.
- Sold to Dr. Toomarian.
Moving right along.
- Get enough to eat?
We'll be back.
- Lillian Stegman.
Tweaked her knee water-skiing.
- Doing a 360
off a 5-foot ramp.
- Ooh. respect.
- X-rays ordered in triage.
- That was hours ago.
- Ma'am.
I'm Dr. Crus Henderson.
Let's get you home real fast.
- That would be wonderful.
- OK. heading to North.
- Thank you.
- Looks like our first scanning
station is almost ready.
Whitaker. Santos. after rounds.
this will be your post.
- Seriously?
- For...how long?
- Till we mop up this mess.
And away we go.
- All right.
now you know everything
there is to know about rounds.
Fascinating. right?
- Uh...yeah.
- Here. I got something
better for you.
So. Digby. we're gonna find you
some new clothes.
but my friend Emma and I
wondered if you'd like
to get cleaned up a bit first.
- I already had a shower.
- I know. and you look good.
But the offer also comes
with a shave and a haircut.
if you're interested.
No pressure--like I said.
you already look great.
- Sure. I guess.
- Fantastic.
All right. kid. fill that basin
with some warm water
and lather him up.
- Hey. stay safe out there.
- Back at you in here.
- Hey. Cary.
You were on scene
with Orlando. right?
Did you notice anything
about his fall?
- Like what?
- Like. um. if there was
a break in the railing
or if there were
security cameras?
- Too busy working on the guy--
IV. intubation.
backboard. splint.
- Thanks.
- Oh. two names is a start.
Pretty soon. we'll retire
the clipboards.
- Baby Jane Doe in Pedes?
- Uh. yeah. abandoned
in the waiting room bathroom
at 7:30 a.m.
- Safe haven drop-off?
- No. she's too old for that.
At least two months.
- I'll take her.
- Awaiting foster placement
by CYF.
- What if the mom comes back?
- Call the cops.
- Day shift.
get to work scanning.
Night shift. the room numbers
on top of the dry-erase board
need a doctor.
- Who's in BH-1?
- Psych hold. danger to self.
- What's the story?
- Doctors King and Langdon
were on the case.
- It's a sad story--
she says her 5-year-old
snuck into the back seat
of the car to take a nap.
- Heat stroke.
- Mom was extremely distraught.
Walked out into traffic.
- Grady Barnhill. wheezing
and not responding
to albuterol.
Pulse ox 87. His mother. Naomi.
- OK. Trauma Two's open.
- On our way.
Uh. Mom. history of asthma?
- His whole life.
Never this bad.
- Barely moving air.
- Using all his
accessory muscles.
- Call RT!
Uh. continuous nebs.
20 milligrams an hour.
- We have a home nebulizer.
I've been giving him
albuterol every hour.
- Ready?
On my count. one. two. three.
- Does he take
any other medications?
- Just the albuterol.
He used to be on montelukast
and Symbicort.
- Why did you stop that?
- Because he lost his Medicaid
two months ago.
- He's so tight.
nothing's getting through.
- Mel. EpiPen.
- On it.
- 0.3 milligrams.
- That may open his lungs
so the nebs can work.
- All right. Grady.
shot in the thigh.
- [grunts]
[beeping]
- Hey.
- Something to scan?
- Critical labs on North Three.
- Oh. it's. uh--
it's not my patient.
- She's about to be.
- I'm. uh--
I'm off the clock. so...
- These were ordered
three hours ago from triage.
so. technically.
she is a day-shift patient.
Just get the intern started.
I got a meeting upstairs
with admin
to get things back on track.
- Sorry.
Everyone else is tied up.
- That's OK.
How'd you get stuck
on night shift
for your first rotation?
- Just lucky. I guess.
- Yeah. if you like
a good horror movie.
- [chuckles]
- Where was med school?
- Uh. UC Irvine.
- California. right?
- Yep.
- Pittsburgh's
a little different.
- Yeah. a lot more humidity.
- Yeah. that'll go away
with your first foot of snow.
Uh. hi. Mrs. Davis.
I am Dr. McKay.
This is Doctor...
- Toomarian.
- Hello.
- Uh. your labs show a lot
of inflammation in your liver.
- Is that why I'm so nauseated?
- Definitely. yeah.
Have you. um. noticed a change
in your skin coloration?
- I've been using
this bronzing cream
so I don't look like a ghost
in my bathing suit.
- Do you remember
the name of the bronzer?
It could have a chemical
that can cause--
- Oh. no. no.
it's 100% natural.
It's DHA from sugar beets.
- OK.
- Why would my liver
be inflamed?
- Uh. there's a lot
of possibilities.
- Are you taking any
prescription medications?
- Not a single one.
- Tylenol?
- God. no.
- We have to ask everybody
about injection drug use.
- Never.
- Raw clams or oysters?
- I'm a vegan.
- One step at a time. OK?
We'll be back.
- Digby. Haas.
now on the big board.
- Progress.
- So he's just been waiting
in the hall the whole time?
OK. well. can you maybe
get to him next?
Thank you. [sighs]
Duke goes to CT.
and they bump him.
- Yeah. he may end up
waiting for hours over there.
- Oh. look at that.
7:15 already.
- Just a few more loose ends
to tie up.
- You got more loose ends
than a macramé wall hanging.
My mom had one.
Took up the whole goddamn wall.
Seriously. you should
think about signing out
and hitting the road.
- Yeah. maybe you should too.
Oh. that's right.
you sent Lena home.
Are you planning on
calling in a replacement.
or are you just gonna work
till sunrise?
- If I have to.
- Oh. so you get to go
the extra mile.
and the rest of us just get
accused of being martyrs.
- Robby.
- Excuse me.
What's the word?
- No subdural. no epidural.
- Diffuse brain swelling
with effacement
and compression
of the ventricles.
- C-spine?
Chest-abdomen-pelvis?
- Uh. left pulmonary contusion.
no intra-abdominal hemorrhage.
- Which means I'm off the hook.
I'll send Neurosurgery down.
- If he doesn't need the OR.
why Neurosurgery?
- Wait and see.
- Let's get busy.
CVP and an art line.
- Orlando.
Orlando. squeeze my hand.
[beeping]
Open your eyes.
- We already know his GCS
is going to be three.
- Hey. Javadi.
anti-seizure prophylaxis?
- Keppra. 20 migs per kilo.
- Mixing it now.
- Gotta get this brain swelling
down. Samira.
How we gonna do that?
Samira?
- What?
- We have to lower
the intracranial pressure.
- Mannitol.
- Not the best.
Can cause diuresis
and hypotension.
- Then hypertonic saline.
- 23%.
50 cc's through a central line.
[beeping]
- Still tight as a drum.
- Five minutes since the epi.
- He can have one more EpiPen.
- Sats are borderline. 87.
- How about BiPap?
10 over 5.
- Yes. with in-line nebs.
- All right. Grady.
shot number two.
- Might as well throw in
some magnesium. 50 per kilo.
- I'm sorry.
He's not ventilating.
We should be ready to intubate.
- With an asthma patient?
There's a high risk
of cardiac arrest.
- Naomi. has he ever been put
on a breathing machine before?
- Never.
- Hospitalized?
- No. we could always break him
with the Symbicort.
- We're gonna give
the current treatment
a few more minutes to help him
turn the corner.
[machines beeping]
- I could probably
do this myself
now that my cast is off.
- Oh. that's OK.
I don't mind.
- How long have you
been a nurse?
- This is my first day.
- You're doing really good.
- Thank you.
- Oh. shit. you OK?
- Yeah.
There's water on the floor.
- Sorry!
I--I might have spilled.
- Yeah. no worries.
We're gonna have to sort
these all by patient
before we scan them.
- Is. uh. Joy still around?
- I heard she left at 6:59.
- Smart girl.
- Mm-hmm.
- You know what? Find Ogilvie.
He's such an ass-kisser.
He might stay and scan
all the charts himself.
- Oh. he. uh. scrubbed in
in the OR.
scrubbed in
on the ruptured triple-A.
- Oh. the kidney stone
that wasn't.
That'll be four hours at least.
So are you still going
to Amy's after work?
- Yeah. maybe just
for tonight.
after Robby briefs me
on all the house stuff.
- Sounds fun.
- [scoffs]
When he asked.
it was hard to say no.
- Sure. [sighs]
It's gonna be very weird
without him here.
- Yeah.
You think Dr. Al-Hashimi
can handle it?
- In a word. no.
- She's smart.
- It takes more than that.
- Yeah. well. at least
it's only three months.
- Yeah. three long months.
Then you need to find
a new home.
- [chuckles]
Not necessarily.
I mean. if I wanted.
I could just check on
Robby's house once
or twice a day. you know.
- Why would you do that?
- I don't know. Why not?
[beeping. whirring]
- Hypertonic's in.
- Maintenance LR in the AC.
- Looks like a halo sign.
- Cerebrospinal fluid
from a basilar skull fracture.
- The halo sign is neither
sensitive nor specific for CSF.
Saline. tap water.
and runny noses
all separate from blood.
- Hello. Linda.
- Robby.
- Division chief working
on a holiday weekend.
- Well. somebody's got to.
Saw the scans.
This guy needs an EVD.
- External ventricular drain
to take down the pressure.
- Because CPP equals
"MAP" minus ICP.
- Cerebral perfusion pressure
in the brain
equals mean arterial
blood pressure
minus the pressure
in the skull.
- ICP less than 22
predicts survival
and favorable outcome.
CPP from 60 to 70 reduces
morbidity and mortality.
Can somebody assist?
- Dr. Mohan?
- I'm good.
- Samira. you should
lend a hand.
- I said I'm good.
- Javadi?
- I don't think so.
As in. daughter
of Raymond and Eileen?
I was at your mother's
baby shower.
[chuckles] She was a resident.
You were in utero.
I don't know how
she got through
motherhood and training.
Feel free to join me.
- Oh. my--my shift was over
a while ago.
- OK.
Masks all around.
Two sterile gowns.
We brought the surgical towels.
Just need some Betadine.
- This is kind of
an amazing opportunity.
- I'm exhausted.
- The Chief of Neurosurgery
is here.
She's kind of a legend.
- Maybe one of the night
residents can do it.
- Is this about
the volvulus case from earlier?
'Cause if it is.
you made a mistake.
You need to move on.
I do not want to come back here
and find that
you've applied
for a residency in derm.
Step up to the plate. Do it.
Javadi will assist.
- Excellent.
You know. I think Eileen did
her first EVD with me
back when I was a brand-new
assistant professor.
[scoffs]
Time flies.
- [raspy breathing]
- How you doing. Grady?
- Still retracting.
- Any improvement?
- Not really.
- You feeling tired?
- Do we have Aerogen in the ED?
- Just in the unit.
- How fast can you get back?
- Two minutes
if I take the stairs.
- Go.
- Uh. Aerogen?
- It has a 5-millimeter mesh
that vibrates
over 120.000 times per second.
- Dr. Al-Hashimi?
- You OK?
- Uh. you were telling us
about Aerogen.
- Dr. Shen can explain.
- It produces droplets
in the 2- to 5-micron range
for medication delivery.
- How's it going?
- Just about to start.
- Securing the art line here.
Measure twice. cut once.
We enter 11 centimeters
back from the nasion.
3 centimeters lateral.
- Without any direct imaging?
- No. straight shot
into the lateral ventricle--
tried and true since 1890.
OK. go ahead with the incision.
- Hey. you worked
with Dr. Al-Hashimi at the VA.
- I did.
- For how long?
- During my R2 rotation
and then one again last year.
- OK. Hand drill's all set.
- Maybe you should do
this part.
- No. no. there's
a safety stop here.
You can't go too deep.
It's not brain surgery.
OK.
Stay perpendicular.
- OK.
- Good.
All right. now. four turns
to get through
the outer table...
- Yep.
- Then half turns
till you penetrate the skull.
- [exhaling slowly]
Three. four.
One...
- Holy smoke!
I thought it was Tom Cruise
for a second over here.
Nice job.
How's that feel. Digby?
- Pretty good.
- I bet.
What do you say we trim up
those gorgeous locks
of yours now?
- I don't like having
my hair cut.
- I get it. Rapunzel.
but you need your ears lowered.
You'll feel better
with a fresh summer look
that won't go unnoticed
by the ladies.
- Maybe just a trim?
- Great.
I'm thinking a pixie cut.
- What?
- I'm kidding.
I cut my husband Benji's hair
all the time.
Trust me. you're gonna look
fabulous.
When's the last time
you had a haircut?
- Maybe my daughter's wedding
a few years ago.
- Where?
- St. Sebastian.
Our Lady of Mount Carmel
Parish.
- Does your daughter know
where you are?
- Of course.
We all live in Pittsburgh.
In fact.
they live in my old house.
- Your daughter lives
in your house?
- Yep.
- Where do you live?
- Wherever I want.
- You're gonna pass it
5 to 6 centimeters
from the inner table
of the skull. OK?
Centered...
perpendicular...
aiming for the medial canthus.
All yours.
- A-and just keep going?
- You'll feel a pop
when you pass
the ependymal lining.
- Art line is calibrated.
Good to go.
- Titrate the nicardipine
to a MAP of 85. please.
- And if we can get
the intracranial pressure
down to 20?
Dr. Mohan?
- I'm sorry.
- MAP of 85. ICP of 20?
- Um. cerebral perfusion
pressure 65.
- Which gives him
the best shot at survival.
A third of patients
like this die.
Half have long-term disability.
We'll know in two weeks
if there's a possibility
for a good prognosis.
- Felt a pop.
- Remove the stylet.
OK. let it drain a bit.
And now pinch it shut.
Perfect.
- BP is down. 190 over 88.
Heart rate's 67.
- How are you guys doing?
- Yeah. making some progress.
- You seen Abbot?
- Not since rounds.
- He asked me to see a patient
with the night intern.
- [yawning] And you said yes?
- 48-year-old woman.
new onset jaundice.
elevated liver enzymes.
no history of alcohol use.
- Take your pick--
hepatitis A. B. C. D. or E.
- No risk factors. no fever.
- Tylenol?
- Never.
and no prescription meds.
- Does she eat
polar bear liver?
It can cause
vitamin A toxicity.
- No.
- Yeah.
- She. uh. doesn't eat meat.
kind of a health nut.
- Well. maybe
she's gulping down
cod liver oil
to prevent measles.
- No. Vegan. no fish.
Would you. uh. mind
laying eyes on her?
- [sighs] Seriously?
- You have a way of
figuring out the weird stuff.
- Take the compliment.
- OK. fine.
Five minutes at the bedside--
that's it.
I'm already gonna be here
for hours as it is.
- Thank you.
- What am I doing--
- Definitely improving.
- Tidal volume's up.
- Wheezes now expiratory only.
- Oh. making some progress.
- You feeling better. baby?
You scared the shit out of me.
- Language!
- Does he have
a primary-care doctor?
- Not anymore.
- How do you get
his prescriptions renewed?
- Neighborhood clinic.
We pay cash.
Albuterol's cheap.
- Symbicort?
- Without Medicaid.
400 bucks a month.
- Just for a little inhaler?
- Trocar is on the tube.
[inhales deeply]
I tunnel underneath the scalp
about 5 centimeters
and poke through.
- To prevent infection?
- Mm-hmm. exactly.
Now you hold the knuckle steady
while I pull it through.
And you can staple
the wound shut.
- That looks like something
from Home Depot.
- Yeah. big
Fourth of July sale.
- The brain pressure
is measured by
the height of the fluid column.
We need to calibrate it to zero
at the level of the tragus.
- Stopcock's on.
ready to attach.
- First troponin's normal.
but you need a second
to rule out MI.
- Hey. can you step out
for a second?
- I really did do
everything I could
to try to make Orlando stay.
- Yeah. I don't doubt it.
I wanted to ask you about
Dr. Al-Hashimi at the VA.
Did you ever notice anything
unusual about her behavior?
- Um. like what?
- Lapses in focus. attention?
- No. she was always
on top of her game.
But this morning when she was
checking labs on Baby Jane Doe.
it was like she zoned out
for a few seconds.
Maybe she was just tired.
- [inhales deeply]
[sighs]
- No congestion. nodules.
or cirrhosis.
- Good-looking liver.
- I should not be sick.
I work so hard
to stay healthy--
diet. exercise.
eight hours of sleep.
- I can't remember the last
time I got eight hours.
- Maybe you should try
sleepmaxxing.
- Oh. you definitely should.
- Yeah. cold room.
white noise. eye shades.
- Kiwis before bedtime.
lettuce water. mouth taping.
- Who do you follow for health?
- A few naturopaths
and some functional healers.
- Do you--do you buy
vitamins from them?
- Oh. no. no.
I don't take vitamins.
Food is the best medicine--
kale. blueberries.
kidney beans. turmeric.
- Turmeric?
- Uh. how long have you
been taking that?
- For a few months.
It's an anti-inflammatory.
It detoxes the body.
and it can prevent Alzheimer's.
- How much do you take?
- 500 milligram capsules.
but I take five a day.
What?
- With doses that large
of turmeric.
there have been cases
of liver failure.
- From eating a spice?
- All right. Digby.
I think you're good to go.
- Mm-hmm.
Would you like to see?
- [sniffles]
I haven't looked like this
in a long time.
- Your family
won't recognize you.
- Then how will they find me?
They--they won't know
what I look like.
They won't know this is me.
- Of course they will.
They know your voice.
They know where you hang out.
They even remember that
you used to look like this.
They remember the wedding.
- Did you dance
with your daughter
at her wedding?
- I did.
- Then she will always
remember you.
- Yeah.
- OK.
- Hey. I was just
looking for you.
- What's up?
- You tell me.
The. uh. asthma patient.
- What about him?
- Seemed like
you were hesitating
talking about using Aerogen.
I was wondering if you were
having second thoughts.
- No. Just thinking.
- About?
- The best treatment plan
for the patient.
And I think he's on it.
Anything else?
- I don't know.
You tell me.
Anything else I need to know?
- I don't think so.
- This is Dr. Robby in the ED.
I'm checking on a patient.
Ekins.
- We can take Larson
and Stevens off the dry-erase.
- Consider it done.
- He's in the scanner now?
Oh. great.
No. I was just calling
to confirm.
Thank you.
Any new information
from upstairs?
- Nothing we don't
already know.
- Same old story. huh?
- You think we should
take up a collection
for Jesse for--for bail money?
- They don't usually set bail
until after you've appeared
in front of a judge.
- With the holiday. it's not
likely to happen till Monday.
- So he's gonna be locked up
all weekend?
- That sucks.
- It does suck.
- Dr. Langdon. Grady's worse--
much worse.
- Need an attending?
- Uh. no. we have Shen.
- Sat's down to 83.
- What's happening?
- Give us a minute.
- He's tiring out.
Ketamine and rock.
It's time to intubate.
- I'll call Volk.
- Ma'am. we have to put a tube
down your son's windpipe
so a machine
can breathe for him.
- [crying] Oh. my God.
- Hold on. hold on.
No lung sliding on the right.
- Pneumothorax.
- No need to intubate.
- What's going on?
- He has a collapsed lung.
- There was no history
of trauma
that would have caused
pneumothorax.
- Glove up. Dr. King.
- In asthma. you can get
"air trapping."
When the lungs can't
fully exhale.
eventually they overinflate.
causing some of the tiny
air sacs to burst.
- How do you fix it?
[rapid beeping]
[air whooshing]
- [gasping]
- Like that.
- It's a good thing
Dr. Conley was here.
- Yeah.
- We should probably try
to find him
a Neuro-Critical ICU bed.
We don't want to board
a patient like this.
- Mm-hmm.
- Hey. Robby.
- Hey. how did the scan go?
- Fine.
- It is probably gonna take
a little while
to get the results
from the radiologist.
- Well. that's not a problem.
Nurse Vivi and I need
a little time
to coordinate our schedules
over the next few months.
- Really?
- Yeah.
I've always wanted to learn
how to ride a motorcycle.
and Duke offered to teach me.
- Well. nobody knows
motorcycles like Duke.
- He's giving me the health
care worker discount.
- He's quite the gentleman.
Let's get him back to his room.
- How would next Saturday be
for you. Vivi?
Uh. maybe we could have
some dinner after.
- Dr. Mohan.
Lorrie Diaz is here.
She wants to see her husband.
She's heading back.
- OK. I'm on my way.
Mrs. Diaz?
- Hi.
Did Orlando go up
to his room yet?
- No. Um--
- I brought him some dinner
from Burgatory.
It's a chicken burger--
no bun. just lettuce.
Figured it would be better
than hospital food.
- He's being treated by our top
brain-injury specialists.
- Will he wake up?
- We won't know
for several weeks.
- And then he could be
back to normal?
- Best-case scenario.
it would take about a year
before he could be
independent at home.
- And the worst case?
- Round-the-clock nursing care
for severe disability.
- You let him leave?
- He insisted on leaving
to work at his second job.
- You couldn't make him stay?
- He was competent.
He knew the risks.
We honored his decision
to leave.
- Even if it was a stupid one?
- I tried to stop him.
Offered to get him
all the supplies he'd need
to take care of himself
at home.
But he left before
I could give them to him.
He said he couldn't afford
to lose a paycheck.
- Dr. Langdon.
[door closes]
Are you OK?
- Yeah. I'm just kind of. uh...
wondering if I'm really
ready to be back here.
- Well. of course you are.
- Ten months is a long time.
I almost killed that kid
with an intubation.
Didn't even occur to me
to check for pneumothorax.
- There wasn't any trauma
to indicate--
- I should have caught it.
- OK.
- [sighs]
- You know. I. um...
[chair scraping]
I had a deposition today.
and all the lawyer's questions
made me feel like
I was a really.
really bad doctor.
We don't always get everything
right the first time.
You would have caught
the collapsed lung.
And it may have taken a minute.
but you would have saved him.
- I'm not sure
Robby would agree with you.
He's been riding me all day.
- Well. Robby's leaving
for three months.
And. you know.
with Robby gone...
I really don't want you
to leave either.
That which does not kill me
makes me stronger.
- Wow. Friedrich Nietzsche.
- Yeah. Nietzsche. yeah...
not Kelly Clarkson.
- [chuckles]
- Hey. that's a thick one.
- Yeah. Austin Green.
Ogilvie's triple-A.
[beeping. whirring]
- Uh. G-R-E-E-N?
- Yeah. Why?
What are you doing?
- Checking to see
when we'll get Ogilvie
back from the OR.
Oh. shit.
- What?
- The guy didn't make it.
He died on the table
about 40 minutes ago.
- Then where's Ogilvie?
- Oh. man.
His patient had a CT
a year and a half ago
that showed
a 4-centimeter triple-A.
- That's too small for surgery.
- He was supposed
to come back
every six months
for a repeat ultrasound.
but looks like he didn't.
- We would've seen that
if the computers were working.
Why wouldn't he tell Ogilvie?
- [sighing] I don't know.
Maybe he forgot all about it.
Or Ogilvie didn't ask
the right questions.
- Dennis. hey. got a minute?
- Uh. sure. What do you need?
- Teenager with jewelry magnets
stuck to both sides
of her nasal septum.
I tried to move them
with a plastic curette.
Too much pain.
and then there was bleeding.
- Those need to come off before
they cause permanent damage.
- Yeah. you think. uh.
you could find. like.
a senior or an attending?
We're really trying
to get off the clock here.
- They're all busy.
- I already took one
for the team.
- Yeah. fine.
- Uh. labs on your yellow lady.
- INR is elevated. 2.2.
- Liver's in trouble
but not dead yet.
- Tell her to skip
the turmeric.
Admit for monitoring.
and follow the LFTs.
- Got it.
- Mm-hmm.
- Central 10?
- Yeah.
- "Sleepmaxxing"? Really?
- I track the online trends.
- Is that your secret
for the tough ones?
- I just think.
what's the stupidest thing
this person could have done?
Then assume they did it.
- Well. I mean.
she was trying to be healthy.
- Yeah. by taking advice
from fools.
- Turmeric is recommended
by a lot of doctors.
- Yeah. then ask your doctor
for the dose
or check someplace reputable.
like the CDC.
Oh. right. I forgot. it's now
a medical toxic waste site.
- I mean.
she's in pretty bad shape.
If things get worse. she could
need a liver transplant.
- Yeah. 'cause she's a big
fucking idiot.
- Wow.
- No. I actually
appreciate her.
Our job security depends on
all these big fucking idiots.
- OK.
- Uh. good night.
Perlah. Monica.
Good night. Dr. Robby.
- Good night.
- Bye. Emma.
- You could stay to pitch in.
- Mm. Dana told me
to go and get some rest
before tomorrow's shift.
- Yeah. you had quite a day.
- Wasn't so bad.
- Why can't I find
Duke's results?
- Oh. new patient. no EHR yet.
- I can run over to Radiology.
get a printout.
- Thank you. Monica.
- Ready to pick up a few more.
Orlando's all tucked in
for now.
- How's he doing?
- Numbers are good.
CPP 22.
- OK. so he's got a shot
at a decent outcome at least.
- You think he has a chance?
- Oh. I don't know
that survival was
the outcome he was hoping for.
- What?
- He told Samira he's got
$100.000 in medical debt.
that his life is probably--
- Mrs. Diaz!
How can we help you?
- The bathroom?
- Uh. yeah.
Perlah can show you the way.
Not a great idea to have
a private conversation
about a patient
in a public area.
- I know. I know.
- You were
about to start yapping--
- But I didn't!
- OK.
And how long have they
been in there?
- At least two hours.
- How did it happen?
- With my earring.
It was supposed to be. uh.
red. white. and blue
to look cool at the fireworks.
- I told her for the nose.
one side only.
but she never listens.
- This can be pretty serious.
If we don't get them out
quickly.
it can cut off the blood supply
and cause the septum
to collapse.
- Like. my nose
could be deformed?
Oh. my God. get them off.
- Yeah. that's the plan.
- Yeah. she tried already.
It hurt like crazy.
- Because they're
stuck together
by a very strong
magnetic force.
- Yeah.
- No. no. no.
- Oh. uh. I'm not gonna
use the tips.
I'm gonna flip it around
and use the handle.
- It's still gonna hurt.
- Probably not.
Just. uh. hold still.
OK.
[sighs] Voilà.
- Really?
- That was amazing.
- I think another half hour.
we can send this dry-erase
board back to storage.
- With pleasure.
- Dr. Robinavitch?
- Yep.
- Results on your friend.
- Fuck.
- Duke?
Are you gonna tell him?
- I want to talk
to a surgeon first.
- Uh. Dr. Robby. I have
an update on the patient.
- Now is not a great time.
- Oh. I thought
you were going home.
- Uh. I was.
Dr. Ogilvie is just sitting
out in the ambulance bay
covered in blood.
- Sorry. what--
what's he doing out there?
- Kind of. uh.
staring off into space.
I tried to talk to him.
but it was like
he couldn't hear me.
- Monica.
can you stat page
CardioThoracic?
- I'll go check on Ogilvie.
- Please.
- Oh.
[sighs]
Hey. Ogilvie.
Ogilvie...
y-you OK. man?
[sighs]
- 99 on 2 liters.
- Scattered end
expiratory wheezes.
- He is so much better.
- The steroids
should kick in soon.
- So he'll keep improving.
- Um. when can I go home?
- In a day or two.
And we will. uh. discharge you
with a Symbicort inhaler.
That should last about a month.
- Hopefully we'll be
back on Medicaid by then.
- How'd you lose it?
- They sent a redetermination
letter to our old apartment.
It didn't get forwarded.
When I went to pick up
his prescription.
pharmacist told me
we were no longer covered.
- And you haven't been able
to get it back since?
- I've been trying for months.
To get re-enrolled.
you need tax returns.
pay stubs.
I cut hair.
My income fluctuates.
A lot of my regulars
are struggling.
so it's been tough.
- Well. if you run out
of Symbicort
before your Medicaid kicks in.
you can come back.
and we'll. uh. set you up
with another one.
- Oh. is there
a patient in here?
'Cause everyone in this room
looks extremely healthy to me.
- Dr. Shen and I will be
with Grady all night long.
- Yeah. Day shift. we got this.
- We're leaving you
in good hands.
- Um...
I was really scared.
Thank you.
- You're very welcome.
- Due to his injury.
things have changed.
- I was looking for Dr. Abbot.
- I haven't seen him
for a while.
- Excuse me.
[door opens]
- So now.
with a long-term disability.
things may be easier.
- "Easier"?
- His condition
will qualify him
for Medicare and Medicaid.
So. moving forward.
costs should be covered.
including home health care.
- OK.
- Perhaps this isn't
the best time--
- I just wanted to reassure you
about future costs.
- Robby.
- Noelle.
- You're still here.
- It's not the best day
to try to get out on time.
- Mm.
So I guess this is it
for a while.
- Unless you want
to come with me.
- No. but thank you.
even if it isn't
a legitimate offer.
- What do you mean?
- Oh. please.
I know well enough
not to get in between
a man and his vision quest.
- "Vision quest."
- That is my nice way
of putting it.
- I probably don't want to hear
your not-so-nice way
of putting it.
- No. probably not.
I-I hope that
this is not. um...
about you running away from me.
I'm a big girl.
You can tell me
just to get lost.
- This has nothing
to do with you.
- Oh. right.
It's the old. uh.
"it's not you. it's me"?
- In this case.
it's actually true.
- Excuse me.
- I'll see you next week?
- It's a three-month
sabbatical.
- Like I said.
I will see you next week.
- My first day here
as a med student...
there was a patient.
[sighs]
He was a real nice guy.
came in with belly pain.
I saw a gall stone
on the ultrasound.
normal EKG. troponin.
The pain resolved.
and he was in the hall
when he had a cardiac arrest.
I couldn't save him.
People die.
And we do the best we can...
but people die.
- You ever get used to it?
- [chuckles] No.
No. you...
you try to accept it.
You try to find balance.
- I don't know if I can take
another day like today.
Primary care specialty
sounds way better.
Pedes. maybe.
- Yeah. maybe.
I know I'd be bored
out of my fucking mind.
Seriously. I like the challenge
of undiagnosed illness.
of quick decisions.
of life-saving procedures.
And I like being here
for people
on the worst days
of their lives.
[clears throat]
You know what I think?
- What?
- I think you should go home.
I think you should sleep on it.
And I think you should
at least wait
till the morning to decide
if you want to come back.
- I don't really want to...
go back in there
and see anybody.
- Yeah.
OK. pull off your gown.
I'll take it in.
Shift is over.
Go home.
[indistinct chatter]
- Oh!
- [gasps] Oh. God.
- No. I'm--I'm--
- Sorry.
- I'm good. I'm good. I'm good.
- There's a dummy
in a wheelchair.
- Uh. yeah. he moves around.
I see I've been replaced.
- Oh. did I take your spot?
- Not really. no.
- Are you sure?
- Where the hell have you been?
- I found Ogilvie.
- And?
- And he's going home.
- That's it?
- It's a long story.
- Well. I got nothing but time.
- I need to respect
his privacy.
- Where's the fun in that?
- Beep. Beep. beep. [chuckles]
- Sorry.
[whirring]
- Um. the shredder jammed.
- Yeah. uh. try
putting it in reverse.
[whirring]
- Perfect.
- Just give it
a little love tap.
- OK.
- Kick it.
[banging]
Jesus Christ.
[laughter]
- Guess Mr. Digby got
a room upstairs.
- In your dreams.
- He's not in South 21.
- Yeah. he is.
- There's a new guy in the bed.
- Short hair. clean-shaved?
I'll take care of it.
- Scout film showed
obvious pathology.
so we ordered the CT angiogram.
- Textbook ascending
aortic aneurysm.
Eight centimeters.
50% one-year mortality.
- So he definitely needs
surgery.
- If he wants to live.
- OK. well. he's a friend.
so I will talk to him.
I'll get him admitted
to your service.
- Not today.
- Why not?
- He needs to see Cardiology
and Pulmonary first
to be cleared for the OR.
They can do a stress echo.
PFTs.
- He needs to be admitted
and evaluated as an inpatient.
- Nothing ever gets done
over a holiday weekend.
He can take it easy at home.
- He's a ticking time bomb.
- He's probably been that way
for years.
We can get him in
early next week
with a specialist
to get his testing done.
All goes well. he's on
the OR schedule in a week.
- What happens if
it ruptures before then?
- Call 911.
Sorry. Robby. Best we can do.
Text me his number.
I'll have my office coordinate.
- Fuck!
- Hey!
Take a walk. Come on!
[bell dings]
- Two for discharge.
- Yeah. please don't
ring the bell.
The computers are
back up and running.
- Not for these two.
They don't have electronic
health records yet.
- Wait. hold up.
This kid had
a wrist X-ray ordered.
Ugh. it never happened.
And water-skiing lady's
still waiting on a knee series.
- I canceled the X-rays.
Diagnosed them both
with ultrasound.
- Really?
- Yeah.
The. uh. little boy had
a simple buckle fracture.
Distal radius.
He got a Velcro splint.
And Mrs. Stegman had
a small medial meniscus tear.
Knee immobilizer. crutches.
and a follow up with ortho.
- Could have used you
on the day shift today.
- They don't teach us a lot
of musculoskeletal ultrasound.
- I know.
That's why I did electives
at Harvard and Highland.
- Are you applying for
an ultrasound fellowship here?
- I am.
but it is so competitive.
- That's what I hear.
- Kind of a long shot.
I only have one publication.
but it's a series
of case reports diagnosing
shoulder dislocations
with ultrasound only.
If you want to learn some MSK.
you can tag along.
I got three more to scan.
- Maybe some other time.
- Cool.
[whirring]
- Hey. don't jam the shredder.
What is that. two charts?
- No. it's my ultrasound
fellowship application.
- Hey.
Uh. sorry about your patient.
- Yeah. Orlando's
in pretty bad shape.
- Oh. no.
I--I was talking about
the triple-A guy
you worked on with Ogilvie.
[sighs]
He didn't make it
through surgery.
I tried to talk to Robby
about it.
but I think he's busy.
- Excuse me.
- [sighing] Oh. shit.
- You think I'm on edge?
First you're shaming Samira.
then McKay--
- They both needed
to be called out
for unacceptable behavior.
- Yeah?
Yeah. well. you do that
in private.
Same place
you share your thoughts
about a patient's
possible suicide.
And slamming stuff? Please.
Sign out all the shit
that's bugging you
and get out of here.
- I can't.
- Yes. you can.
When either of my kids
was acting like this.
I gave them a time-out
in their room.
- Whoa. whoa. whoa.
you're not my mother.
- Yeah? Well. too bad.
You need one.
- No. I had one.
She left.
I don't need another one.
What I need is someone
who can actually run this place
while I'm gone.
- OK. I'm sorry.
I didn't know.
- Nobody knows.
Who needs to know?
Who gives a fuck?
- I think you need a break.
- That is what
the sabbatical is for.
- Then start it now. Walk away.
- I have too much to do.
- Let someone else
talk to Duke.
- No. that needs
to come from me.
- Why?
- Because I owe him that.
It needs to come from a friend.
not a stranger.
otherwise he's gonna bail
and drop dead while I'm gone.
- OK. wrap that up
and then leave.
- It's not just Duke.
I'm not sure that Al-Hashimi
is fit to run this place.
- What's that supposed to mean?
- I'm not sure.
I'm trying to figure that out.
Did you know that she wants
to have two attendings
on at all times?
- No.
- Is that something
she's worked out with Gloria?
- I don't know.
- I also don't know
if Langdon is going to relapse.
I don't know if
Whitaker's gonna be able
to take care of my shit.
I don't know if
Javadi's gonna give up on
what she's good at
or if Samira's gonna flame out
because of some bullshit
with her mother.
- Is there anything else?
- Yeah. you.
I don't know about you
running around
with a full syringe of Versed
in your pocket.
I'm worried about the people
that I care about.
- We'll all manage
until you come back.
We always do.
- Yeah?
What if I don't come back?
[pensive music]
♪ ♪